In this lesson we will learn about the errors that can be made in hypothesis testing.
In general we can have two types of errors type 1 error and type 2 error.
Sounds a bit boring but this will be a fun lecture I promise.
First we will define the problems and then we will see some interesting examples type 1 error is when
you reject a true null hypothesis and is the more serious error.
It is also called a false positive.
The probability of making this error is alpha.
The level of significance since you the researcher choose the alpha.
The responsibility for making this error lies solely on you type 2 error is when you accept a false
null hypothesis.
The probability of making this error is denoted by beda beda depends mainly on sample size and population
variance.
So if your topic is difficult to test due to a hard sampling or as high variability it is more likely
to make this type of error.
As you can imagine if the data set is hard to test it is not your fault.
So Type 2 error is considered a smaller problem.
We should also mention that the probability of rejecting a false null hypothesis is equal to 1 minus
beta.
This is the researchers go to reject a false null hypothesis.
Therefore one minus Bayda is called The Power of the test.
Generally researchers increase the power of a test by increasing the sample size.
This is a common table statisticians used to summarize the types of errors.
Now let's see an example that I heard from my professor back when I was studying statistics in university.
You're in love with this girl from the other class but are unsure if she likes you.
There are two errors you can make.
First if she likes you back and you don't invite her out you are making the type 1 error.
The null hypothesis in this situation is she likes you back.
It turns out that she really did like you back.
Unfortunately you did not invite her out because after testing the situation you wrongly thought the
null hypothesis was false.
In other words you rejected a true null hypothesis and lost her chance.
It is a very serious problem because you could have been made for each other but you didn't even try.
Now imagine another situation she doesn't like you back but you go and invite her out.
The null hypothesis is still she likes you back but this time it is false.
In reality she doesn't really like you back.
That is however after testing you accept the null hypotheses and wrongly go and invite her out.
She tells you that she has a boyfriend that is much older smarter and better at statistics than you
and turns her back.
You made a type 2 error accepted a false null hypothesis.
However it is no big deal as you go back to your normal life without her and soon forget about this
awkward situation.
Hypothesis Testing is usually like that.
You don't really want to make any of the two errors but it happens sometimes.
You should be aware that statistics is very useful but not perfect.
All right.
That's all from our love slash life slash statistics lesson.
Thanks for watching.